Some clarifications, but still needs more work to be done. (#78)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf: draft-irtf-cfrg-voprf.md

construction differs slightly in that we can perform multiple VOPRF
evaluations in one go, whilst only constructing one NIZK proof object.

In this section we describe the OPRF and VOPRF protocols. Recall that
such a protocol takes place between a verifier (V) and a prover (P). We
may commonly think of the verifier as the client, and the prover as the
server in the interaction (we will use these names interchangeably
throughout). The server holds a key k for a PRF. The protocol allows the
client to learn PRF evaluations on chosen inputs x without revealing x
to the server.
## Design

> Our OPRF construction is based on the VOPRF construction known as

Reviewer: I think this paragraph can be reworded, but I think it may retain importance for situating the security guarantees provided by the protocol. What do you think @chris-wood?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, and it should probably go to the security considerations. Putting it up front can be a bit cumbersome!

Author: I set to be removed as is almost duplicated in Line 499.

> H_2: {0,1}^u x {0,1}^v -> {0,1}^w

Reviewer 2: Unrelated to this change, but what is `u` here? Is DST guaranteed to be of size `u`? (2HashDH doesn't specify the hash this way. Maybe we ought to go back to what's in the original paper?)

Author: Tracked in #89

fixed-length input strings to a fixed-length output string. All hash functions in the protocol are modeled as random oracles. Let L be the security
parameter. Let k be the prover's secret key, and Y = kG be its
corresponding 'public key' for some fixed generator G taken from the
description of the group GG. This public key Y is also referred to as a
commitment to the OPRF key k, and the pair (G,Y) as a commitment pair.

> Let x be an arbitrary-length binary string representing the verifier's input to the OPRF protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let x be an arbitrary-length byte string representing the verifier's input to the OPRF protocol.
```

The OPRF protocol begins with V blinding its input for the OPRF
evaluator such that it appears uniformly distributed from GG. The verifier then

> multiplies the blinded value by its secret key and returns the resulting element. To finish the procotol, V then removes its blind and uses H_2 to hash the result (along with a domain separating label DST) yielding an output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
multiplies the blinded value by its secret key and returns the resulting element. 
To finish the protocol, V then removes its blind and uses H_2 to hash the result (along 
with a domain separating label DST) yielding an output.
```

The protocol is illustrated below.

~~~
     Verifier(x)                   Prover(k)
  ----------------------------------------------------------
     r <-$ GF(p)
     M = rH_1(x)
                           M
                        ------->
                                  Z = kM
                                  [D = DLEQ_Generate(k,G,Y,M,Z)]
                          Z[,D]
                        <-------
    [b = DLEQ_Verify(G,Y,M,Z,D)]
    N = r^(-1)Z
    h = H_2(DST, x .. N) mod p

>     Output h [if b=false, abort]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Output h [if b=false: abort]
```

~~~

Steps that are enclosed in square brackets (DLEQ_Generate and

> DLEQ_Verify) are REQUIRED for achieving verifiability. These steps are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DLEQ_Verify) are REQUIRED for verifiability. These steps are
```

This protocol may be decomposed into a series of steps, as described
below:

- Setup(L): Let GG be a group of prime-order p such that the discrete logarithm

>   problem in GG can be solved in 2^L operations. The Prover randomly samples a

Reviewer: This isn't strictly true, we require hardness from a different assumption. I think it's best to remove the bit about discrete logarithms for now, and I'll completely rework how the Setup phase occurs.

Author: reverted

  secret scalar k in GF(p).
- Blind(x): This operation allows the Verifier to compute M, a blinded

>   representation of x in GG. To do so, the Verifier requires a blind r, which is a scalar uniformly sampled from GF(p).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  representation of x in GG. To do so, the Verifier requires sampling a blind r, which is a scalar value that must be uniformly sampled from GF(p).
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should take this change, as it seems to prohibit fixed-base blinding. Let's revert to the old definition, which permitted additive and multiplicative blindings?

Author: reverted

- Finalize(x,N,aux?): Finalize N by first computing dk := H_2(DST, x ..

>   N). Subsequently output y := H_2(dk, aux), where aux is some auxiliary

Reviewer 2: Unrelated to this change, but this doesn't match the diagram, where we output `H_2(DST, ...)` rather than `H_2(dk, ...)`.

Author: Tracked on #89

The Finalize procedure accepts optional auxiliary byte string input (aux) as
a means of modifying the PRF output. This parameter SHOULD be used for domain
separation in (V)OPRF the protocol. Specifically, any system which has
multiple (V)OPRF applications should use different aux values to ensure
finalized outputs are separate. Guidance for constructing domain separation
string aux can be found in {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}; Section 3.1.

## Instantiations of GG

> A secure instance is to choose GG as the group of squares of a finite field FF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A secure instance includes choosing GG as the group of squares of a finite field FF.
```

> A secure instance is to choose GG as the group of squares of a finite field FF.

Reviewer 2: Can we do away with this section entirely and just require that groups have prime order, a fixed generator, and can be implemented efficiently? We can then list examples of such groups, ideally in a table with relevant parameters?

Let FF be field of order q = 2p+1 such that p and q are primes, then the
squares of FF (elements u^2 where u is an element of FF) form a cyclic group of
order p.

> A more efficient and secure way to instance the (V)OPRF protocol is using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A more efficient and secure way to instantiate the (V)OPRF protocol is using
```

Reviewer: What does "more secure" mean here?

Author: Agree, it does not sound good.

> A more efficient and secure way to instance the (V)OPRF protocol is using

Author: ```suggestion
A more efficient way to instanciate the (V)OPRF protocol is using
```

The Finalize procedure accepts optional auxiliary byte string input (aux) as
a means of modifying the PRF output. This parameter SHOULD be used for domain
separation in (V)OPRF the protocol. Specifically, any system which has
multiple (V)OPRF applications should use different aux values to ensure
finalized outputs are separate. Guidance for constructing domain separation

> string aux can be found in {{I-D.irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve}}; Section 3.1.

Reviewer 2: Should we unify around DST instead of `aux`?

Author: Tracked in #83

## Instantiations of GG

A secure instance includes choosing GG as the group of squares of a finite field FF.
Let FF be field of order q = 2p+1 such that p and q are primes, then the
squares of FF (elements u^2 where u is an element of FF) form a cyclic group of
order p.

A more efficient way to instanciate the (V)OPRF protocol is using
groups resultant from elliptic curves. Given an elliptic curve defined by an
equation, the points that satisfy the curve equation form a group, and this
group can be used as GG if its order is prime. Note, however, that some
elliptic curves generate groups of composite-order. In this case, GG is usually
chosen as the largest prime-order subgroup of the elliptic curve. Alternatively,
GG can be instantiated as a quotient of groups, such as Ristretto {{RISTRETTO}}
and Decaf {{DECAF}} groups.

Unless otherwise stated, it is assumed that the generator G of the group GG is
a fixed generator. This generator should be available to both the client and
the server ahead of the protocol, or derived for each different group

> instantiation using a fixed method. In most of cases, the fixed generators are given as part of the group description.

Reviewer 2: Should we include a table that lists the group (name) and its parameters, e.g., the generator, base field prime order, etc.?

Author: Tracked in #90
